Author: Darth Vader
"Be careful not to choke on your aspirations."
"That name no longer has any meaning for me."
"All too easy."
"Just for once let me look on you with my own eyes. You were right. You were right about me. Tell your sister you were right."
"Impressive. Most impressive. Obi-Wan has taught you well."
"No, I am your father."
"I am altering the deal. Pray I don’t alter it any further."
"It is your destiny. Join me, and together we can rule the galaxy as father and son."
"This will be a day long "
"You don’t know the power of the dark side."
"I hope so for your sake, Commander. The Emperor is not as forgiving as I am."
"There is no escape. Don’t make me destroy you. Luke, you do not yet realize your importance."
"All I am surrounded by is fear, and dead men."
"If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally."
"Apology accepted, Captain Needa."
"Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them."
"You have controlled your fear. Now, release your anger. Only your hatred can destroy me."
"Anakin Skywalker was weak. I destroyed him."
"You are unwise to lower your defenses."
"Asteroids do not concern me, Admiral."
"Obi-Wan never told you what happened to your father."
"From my point of view, the Jedi are evil."
"You have learned much, young one."
"Don’t fail me again, Admiral."
"It has seen the end of Kenobi; it will soon see the end of the "
"He will not be permanently damaged."
"You have failed me for the last time."
"He will join us or die, my master."
"You have only begun to discover your power. Join me and I will complete your training."
"He’s just a boy."
"You are beaten. It is useless to resist."
"If you only knew the power of the dark side. Obi-Wan never told you what happened to your father."
"He’s all yours, bounty hunter. Reset the chamber for Skywalker."
"With our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the galaxy."
"The Emperor will show you the true nature of the Force. He is your Master now."
"I find your lack of faith disturbing."
"You have learned much, young one."
"I do not want the Emperor’s prize damaged."
"Your destiny lies with me Skywalker. Obi-Wan knew this to be true."
"Take the princess and the Wookie to my ship."
"When I left you I was but the learner.Now I am the master."
"The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force."
"You underestimate the power of the Dark Side. If you will not fight, then you will meet your destiny."
"If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally."
"Don’t be too proud of this technological terror you’ve constructed."
"The Force is with you, young Skywalker, but you are not a Jedi yet."
"The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force."
"There is no escape. Don’t make me destroy you."
"You’re a part of the rebel alliance and a traitor. Take her away!"
"I see through the lies of the Jedi. I do not fear the dark side as you do."
"No, I am your father."
"We meet again at last."
"Give yourself to the Dark Side. It is the only way you can save your friends."
"Luke, you do not yet realize your importance."
"I am altering the deal, pray I do not alter it any further…"
"When I left you, I was but the learner. Now I am the master."
"You cannot hide forever, Luke."
"You’re asking me to be rational. That is something I know I cannot do."
"The emperor will show you the true nature of the force."
"The circle is now complete."
"Yes, your thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially for… sister. So, you have a twin sister."
"What is thy bidding, my Master?"
"I see through the lies of the Jedi. I do not fear the dark side as you do."
"With our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the galaxy."
"I have brought peace, freedom, justice, and security to my new empire."
"The force is with you, young Skywalker, but you are not a Jedi yet."
"We would be honored, if you would join us."
"Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the Dark Side… then perhaps she will…"
"Yes, your thoughts betray you."
"Your destiny lies with me Skywalker. Obi-Wan knew this to be true."
"I have felt it."
"That name no longer has any meaning for me."
"Yes, your thoughts betray you."
"I have brought peace, freedom, justice, and security to my new empire."
