Author: Edgar Allan Poe
"If you wish to forget anything on the spot, make a note that this thing is to be remembered."
"All that we see and seem is but a dream within a dream."
"Never to suffer would never to have been blessed."
"Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night."
"The nose of a mob is its imagination. By this, at any time, it can be quietly led."
"I have great faith in fools; self-confidence, my friends call it."
"Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there, wondering, fearing, doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before."
"I became insane, with long intervals of horrible sanity"
"I have great faith in fools -- self confidence my friends call it."
"I became insane, with long intervals of horrible sanity."
"That man is not truly brave who is afraid either to seem or to be, when it suits him, a coward."
"Take this kiss upon the brow and, in parting from you now, thus much let me avow -- you are not wrong who deem that my days have been a dream yet if hope has flown away in a night, or in a day, in a vision, or in none, is it therefore the less gone all that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream."
"Convinced myself, I seek not to convince."
"It may well be doubted whether human ingenuity can construct an enigma... which human ingenuity may not, by proper application, resolve."
"Sleep, those little slices of death, how I loathe them."
"Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things that escape those who dream only at night."
"That pleasure which is at once the most pure, the most elevating and the most intense, is derived, I maintain, from the contemplation of the beautiful."
"They who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night. In their gray visions they obtain glimpses of eternity; and thrill; in waking; to find they have been upon the verge of the great secret."
"Sleep, those little slices of death; Oh how I loathe them."
"Science has not yet taught us if madness is or is not the sublimity of the intelligence."
"It is by no means an irrational fancy that, in a future existence, we shall look upon what we think our present existence, as a dream."
"There are few cases in which mere popularity should be considered a proper test of merit; but the case of song-writing is, I think, one of the few."
"Children are never too tender to be whipped. Like tough beefsteaks, the more you beat them, the more tender they become."
